What is AWS ? 

    Aws is a cloud provider 
    
    they provide servers and
    services 
    that we can use on demand 
    and scale easily


    Aws powers biggest websites in the world such as amazon.com

    etc


NOTE :

    It is perfectly fine to start with this course if you're new with AWS.


While many learners start with AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner, then AWS Solutions Architect Associate, then move on to AWS Certified Developer, 




    https://courses.datacumulus.com/downloads/certified-developer-k92/



## GETTING Started

2002 -> internally launched

2005 -> public launch


AWS is the leader of cloud market 

1m active users

AWS use cases :

    Enables u to build sophisticatd and scalable applications


    Applicable to  Diverse set of industries

    Enterprise IT , backup , storage , big data analytics



AWS global infrastructure:


Regions 
Availablity zones
local zones
points of presence
network




AWS regions are all around the world

Names can be us-east-1 eu-west-3 etc.

A region is a cluster of data centres


Most aws services are region scoped



How to choose aws region?

    1. compliance with data governance and legal requirements.
    Data never leaves a region without explicit permission

    2. Proximity to customers : 
    Reduced latency

    3. Available services within a region : new services and new features are not available in every region

    4. Pricing : Pricing varies region to region and transparent 


AWS Availablity zones :

    Each region has many availability zones 
    usually 3 , min is 3 and max is 6

    E.g ap-southeast-2a
        ap-southeast-2b


Each availability zone is one or more discrete data centers with redundant power , networking and connectivity.

They are separate from each other so that they are isolated from disasters

COnnected with high bandwidth ultra low latency nw


AWS Edge location (Points of presence)

    400+ points of presence

    content is delivered without latency



AWS global services :

    IAM (Identity and Access management)
    Route 53 (DNS)
    Cloudfront (Content delivery)
    WAF (web application firewall)

Region Scoped :

    EC2  (IAAS)
    Elastic beanstalk (PAAS)
    Lambda (FAAS)
    Rekognition (SAAS)


Check region table




























